Hi, I'm Martin Riedmiller,
head of the control team at Deepmind.
And I've been working for more than 20
years on New Reinforcement Learning Agents
for the control of dynamical systems.
[SOUND] Today, I want to introduce
you to a particular viewpoint or
perspective on reinforcement learning.
The collect and
infer framework is particularly suited for
the design and development of
data efficient learning agents.
The control of weaver dynamical systems
is an attractive application area for
reinforcement learning controllers.
Like control of autonomous cars,
control of soccer-playing robots,
our slot car racing from pixels.
They all share the same principle
feedback control structure, a controller
gets the observation, computes an action
and applies it to the environment.
Classical control theory would first model
the process as a set of differential
equations for which then a control
law must be analytically derived.
A tedious job in particular if the systems
are complex or highly nonlinear.
Reinforcement learning in contrast
promises to be able to learn
the controller autonomously.
If only the overall
control goal is specified.
This is typically done by
defining the immediate reward.
The RL controller optimizes the expected
cumulated sum of rewards over time.
[SOUND] Reinforcement learning therefore
offers the right framework to tackle
feedback control of dynamical systems.
We are looking for a policy that optimizes
expected cumulated reward over time.
This can be done in a model free setting
by iterating on a Q value function.
Since in most control applications we are
typically dealing with continuous states
and actions.
Will be using a neural network
with inputs s and a to compute Q.
The above Bellman equation is then
transformed into a quadratic loss
function.
That is minimized by gradient
descent over the network parameters.
[SOUND] The core question when
it comes to learning on real
systems is how to do
this data efficiently.
[SOUND] In classical
RL the update rule for
the value function is
applied in an online fashion.
The agent observes an input,
computes an action and
observes the resulting state and
then updates its controller accordingly.
Every transition is used only once,
empirically this leads to highly
data consuming learning behavior.
Which might be okay if our
environment is a simulator and
provides us with infinite data.
But typically does not work for Realworld
System where data is not abundant.
[SOUND] If data is limited,
then the core inside reads data
is precious and data is true.
So we shouldn't throw away any
transition experience as a as crime but
instead store all of them
in a transition memory.
Learning is then done
on the entire data set.
In this step, we infer knowledge
from our transition memory.
[SOUND] The inferred knowledge can
only be as good as the data in
the transition memory.
Therefore, collecting the right
data is the second important
component of our framework.
[SOUND] These two steps together
build the so-called collecting and
infer framework of reinforcement learning.
This perspective keeps us focused on the
two main question of data efficient RL.
Infer, which means squeezing out the most
of a given set of transition data.
And collect, which means sampling the most
formative data from the environment.
In the interest of time, we will only
concentrate on the infer part for
the remainder of this lecture.
[SOUND] The neural fitted Q
algorithm fully embraces this idea
of learning from a start
set of transitions.
Given the set of N transition
tuples we first set the training
set M equal to the whole data set D.
Then we compute Q target values for
every sample in M
based on the Q iteration rule derived
from dynamic programming principles.
Once the targets are computed for all the
transitions in M, the neural network is
fitted to these target values by
an ordinary supervised learning step.
The outer loop can be repeated for
an arbitrary number of
dynamic programming steps.
Until the optimal value function Q star is
approximated with in a satisfying occurs.
Finally the control law is given by
the greedy evaluation of Q star at s.
NFQ basically turns reinforcement
learning into a series of
supervised learning problems.
It is assumes to always do updates on
the whole available set of transitions.
This might be impractical for
very large data sets dqn is a popular
variant of nfq that uses mini
batches of samples for the updates.
And some additional adaptations
to deal with huge data sets
as an example consider the classical
called pole system in reality.
It's learned here completely from scratch.
The reward function
definition is rather simple.
It's one if the pole is upright and
0 else.
Optionally one could also consider
the card position as an additional
input to the reward function.
Classical online td0
needed about 1 million of
trials in a simulated version
to learn to balance the pole.
With nfq training needs less
than three hundred trials
several orders of magnitude faster.
This makes it possible to apply
new reinforcement learning to
real-world systems directly [SOUND].
To summarize the collect and infer
framework opens the door to increasingly
complex real-world applications of
the reinforcement learning paradigm.